Create Installing-drivers-and-fix-them (#161)
Microsoft-community/Community-website: wiki/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them.md

## Method 1: Using Windows Update
You can usually find drivers for your devices in Windows Update, instead of having to manually download the file.
 1. Open Settings through the start menu or by pressing <kbd>Win</kbd> + <kbd>I</kbd>.
 2. Go to Updates and Security or Windows Updates.
 3. Click on “Check for Updates” or "Download & Install Updates".
 4. Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date, even if optional updates are available. You should check if there are additional optional updates by clicking on "View Additional Updates" on Windows 10, or "Advanced Options"> "Optional Updates" on Windows 11. Doing so will allow you to view available driver updates/software updates. Select all of them and click on “Download and install”.

> <img src="./wiki/img/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them/Optional updates/Windows 11
> /1.png" alt="4.1" height=350px>
> <img src="./wiki/img/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them/Optional updates/Windows 11
> /2.png" alt="4.2" height=350px>
> <img src="./wiki/img/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them/Optional updates/Windows 11
> /3.png" alt="4.3" height=350px>

Reviewer: You cannot have newlines in the middle of strings—this is why the checks failed. The paths also do not need to start with `./wiki` because you are already in the `wiki` folder. They should start with `./img`.
```suggestion
<img src="./img/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them/Optional updates/Windows 11/1.png" alt="4.1" height=350px>
<img src="./img/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them/Optional updates/Windows 11/2.png" alt="4.2" height=350px>
<img src="./img/Installing-drivers-and-fix-them/Optional updates/Windows 11/3.png" alt="4.3" height=350px>
```

All you need to do is:

 1. Go to your favourite searcher and search: “{your brand device name} drivers”.
 2. Next, put the ID of your device and follow the instructions on the page.
 3. When you selected the product you have two options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recomended)
	- And download the driver on especific and run executable

## Method 3: Download via brand product page.
Now if you want to download for your GPU or your brand device hasn't the drivers (in this case do it if it is especially important, otherwise apply the saying: “if it works, don't touch it, or you may make it worse”).
Now follow the same instructions but the brand hardware (like intel CPU and GPU).

 1. Go to your favourite searcher again and search: “{your brand name} driver download”.
 2. Search your hardware piece you want to upgrade.
 3. When you selected the product you have two options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recomended)
	- And download the driver on especific and run executable

>  - (Follow method 3 for more information: https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-2-device-manager)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - (Follow method 3 for more information: [https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website](https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website))
```
You may want to properly link to Method 3 since that is what you're referencing, and the link should be clickable.

> If you want to download the drivers for your GPU (Graphics Card), and the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers, you can download them from the OEM's (Original Equipment Manufacturer) website.

Reviewer 2: change this a bit cuz i made a mistake there :)

```suggestion
If the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers that you need for your hardware, you can download them from the OEM's (Original Equipment Manufacturer) website.
```

 - Earlier Windows versions: Restart your computer and repeatedly press F8 before the Windows logo appears. This should open the Advanced Boot Options menu, where you can choose “Safe Mode”.

2. Uninstall the Driver in Safe Mode:

Once in safe mode, you can uninstall the problematic driver:

 1. Open the Device Manager (search for it in the Start Menu).
 2. Expand the category for the device with the recently installed driver.
 3. Right-click on the driver and select “Uninstall device”.
 4. Check the box “Delete the driver software for this device” (if available) and click “Uninstall”.

3. System Restore (if applicable):

If you recently created a system restore point before installing the driver, you can restore Windows to that point:

 1. In Safe Mode, open the Start Menu and search for “System Restore”.
 2. Click “Create a restore point” and then “Next”.
 3. Choose the desired restore point (ideally the one before installing the driver) and click “Next” followed by “Finish”.

4. Startup Repair (if Windows won't boot at all):

If even Safe Mode isn't accessible, you can try Startup Repair, a built-in tool on Windows that tries to fix boot issues:

>  1. Create a Windows Recovery USB drive using another computer ([https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/create-a-recovery-drive-abb4691b-5324-6d4a-8766-73fab304c246](https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html).

Reviewer: Be careful, these are two separate URLs. Which one did you mean to use? Put the same URL inside of [] and () to make it clickable, like this: `[https://google.com](https://google.com)`

# How to install drivers and fix them 
Hello, in this post you will know how to download or update your drivers for your computer.

> It's hightly recommended to don't use third-party software to update drivers.

Reviewer 2: It's highly recommended to **not** use third-party software to update drivers.

## Before you get into the process, you need to know your computer.

> The first step in installing drivers is to correctly find the hardware you need drivers for. This information can be found in your computer's manual or by using the Device Manager (Windows) (right click into windows icon and press “Device Manager”). In the Device Manager, look for the device you need drivers for and expand its entry to see its model number. In System Information, navigate to the “Hardware” section and find the device you need drivers for.

Reviewer 2: Might be better to say identify instead of find? :

The first step in installing drivers is to correctly **identify** the hardware you need drivers for.

> The first step in installing drivers is to correctly find the hardware you need drivers for. This information can be found in your computer's manual or by using the Device Manager (Windows) (right click into windows icon and press “Device Manager”). In the Device Manager, look for the device you need drivers for and expand its entry to see its model number. In System Information, navigate to the “Hardware” section and find the device you need drivers for.

Reviewer 2: Small fixes for 4th sentence (grammar) :

In the Device Manager, look for the device you need drivers for, and expand it's entry to see its model number.

## Method 1: Check Windows Update

> Most of the time, you will find updates for your driver.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like :

You can usually find drivers and drivers update in Windows Update, instead of manually downloading the file.

>  1. Open the configuration for Windows via windows menu or the searcher.

Reviewer 2: "Open the Settings app using the Start menu."

 2. Go to Updates and security.

>  3. Click to “Check updates”.

Reviewer 2: Click **on** “Check updates”.

>  4. Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date even if optional updates are available. In the case you see optional updates, and you click into it, you will see some updates (normally drivers), you select to all, and you need to click “Download and install” button.

Reviewer 2: > In the case you see optional updates, and you click into it, you will see some updates (normally drivers), you select to all, and you need to click “Download and install” button.

Maybe this instead? :

In this case, you will see an "Optional Updates" button. Clicking in it will show a list of updates (all of them are usually driver updates). Select all of them and click on "Download an install".

## Method 2: Download via brand device page.

> It's highly recommended to downloading the drivers or update them via brand page or app by the fact that the company verifies that the driver works well with the computer (graphics in most cases is on the brand GPU page)

Reviewer 2: Perhaps change it to this?

It's highly recommended to download or update the drivers, through the manufacturer's website, as it's guaranteed that they will work correctly. This is especially a good idea for the GPU (Graphics) drivers.

All you need to do is:

>  1. Go to your favourite searcher and search: “{your brand device name} drivers”.

Reviewer 2: On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc...), search for "{device manufacturer} drivers".

>  2. Next, put the ID of your device and follow the instructions on the page.

Reviewer 2: Next, enter the ID of the device and follow the instructions on the page.

>  3. When you selected the product you have two options:

Reviewer 2: [after the sentence above] "It's recommended to use the driver downloader if it's provided, as it makes the installation a lot easier.

	- Download the driver downloader (recomended)

> 	- And download the driver on especific and run executable

Reviewer 2: perhaps remove the "And" in the beginning?

> ## Method 3: Download via brand product page.

Reviewer 2: How is this any different from method 2?

Reviewer 2: > Sometimes there are cases that brand computer doesn't offer the drivers.

Oooooh like, for the GPU, mkay.

Now if you want to download for your GPU or your brand device hasn't the drivers (in this case do it if it is especially important, otherwise apply the saying: “if it works, don't touch it, or you may make it worse”).
Now follow the same instructions but the brand hardware (like intel CPU and GPU).

 1. Go to your favourite searcher again and search: “{your brand name} driver download”.
 2. Search your hardware piece you want to upgrade.
 3. When you selected the product you have two options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recomended)
	- And download the driver on especific and run executable
- (Follow method 3 for more information: [https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website](https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website))

> ## Oh, no! I can't access to my pc!

Reviewer 2: just call the header "Troubleshooting" maybe 😂

1. Enter Safe Mode:

> Safe mode is a diagnostic boot way that loads Windows with only the essential drivers. This allows you to access Windows even if the problematic driver is causing issues during normal boot.

Reviewer 2: Safe mode is a diagnostic tool, which loads Windows with only the essential drivers. This allows you to access Windows even if the problematic driver is causing issues during normal boot.

 - Windows 10/11: Repeatedly press and hold the power button while booting to trigger a forced restart. After 2–3 restarts, you'll see the “Advanced options” screen. Navigate to “Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Settings” > “Restart now”. Upon restart, choose “Enable Safe Mode with Networking” (if you need internet) or simply “Safe Mode”.

 - Earlier Windows versions: Restart your computer and repeatedly press F8 before the Windows logo appears. This should open the Advanced Boot Options menu, where you can choose “Safe Mode”.

2. Uninstall the Driver in Safe Mode:

Once in safe mode, you can uninstall the problematic driver:

 1. Open the Device Manager (search for it in the Start Menu).
 2. Expand the category for the device with the recently installed driver.

>  3. Right-click on the driver and select “Uninstall device”.

Reviewer 2: Right-click on the **device** and select “Uninstall device”.

 4. Check the box “Delete the driver software for this device” (if available) and click “Uninstall”.

3. System Restore (if applicable):

If you recently created a system restore point before installing the driver, you can restore Windows to that point:

 1. In Safe Mode, open the Start Menu and search for “System Restore”.
 2. Click “Create a restore point” and then “Next”.
 3. Choose the desired restore point (ideally the one before installing the driver) and click “Next” followed by “Finish”.

4. Startup Repair (if Windows won't boot at all):

> If even Safe Mode isn't accessible, you can try Startup Repair, a built-in tool on Windows that tries to fix boot issues:

Reviewer 2: If Safe Mode isn't accessible, you can try Startup Repair, a built-in tool **in** Windows that will attempt to fix boot issues:

>  1. Create a Windows Recovery USB drive using another computer [https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html](https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html).

Reviewer 2: Create a Windows Recovery USB drive using another computer. See : [https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html](Download Windows).

 2. Boot your computer using the recovery drive and choose “Fix computer problems > Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Repair”.

5. Reinstall Windows (last resort):

If none of the above solutions work, you may need to reinstall Windows. This will erase all your data and applications, so make sure you have a backup.

>  1. Download windows with a functional machine, following the steps from this URL [https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html](https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html)

Reviewer 2: Download windows using a working computer : [https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html](Downloading Windows)

>  2. Next, follow this guide about how to install: [https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html](https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html) (if asks about a licence, and you don't have it, you can press Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will reactivate automatically later. If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again).

Reviewer 2: Next, to install Windows, follow this guide : [https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html](Instaling Windows) 

Note : During the installation process, you may be asked to enter a licence key. If you don't have one, you can click Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will automatically reactivate later. However, you will need to sign-in with a Microsoft account.

Reviewer: @sthivaios Your link syntax is backwards, it's `[text to display](url)`

You also do not always have to sign in with a MS account for Windows to find a digital license, though that will probably improve your chances of successful reactivation

Reviewer 2: > @sthivaios Your link syntax is backwards, it's `[text to display](url)` (check your other suggestions too)
> 
> You also do not always have to sign in with a MS account for Windows to find a digital license, though that will probably improve your chances of successful reactivation

wait really? 💀 😭

Author: Heh, then what I do?

Reviewer: @sthivaios re:
> However, you may need to sign-in with a Microsoft account.

Personally I think that what was there before:
> If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again

...fits better, because it makes it clear that you need to use the same account if the key is tied to your MS account.

Reviewer 2: > @sthivaios re:
> 
> > However, you may need to sign-in with a Microsoft account.
> 
> Personally I think that what was there before:
> 
> > If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again
> 
> ...fits better, because it makes it clear that you need to use the same account if the key is tied to your MS account.

oh yeah that's better

>  1. Download windows with a functional machine, following the steps from this URL [https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html] (https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html)
>  2. Next, follow this guide about how to install: [https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html] (https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html) (if asks about a licence, and you don't have it, you can press Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will reactivate automatically later. If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Download windows with a functional machine, following the steps from this URL [https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html](https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html)
 2. Next, follow this guide about how to install: [https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html](https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html) (if asks about a licence, and you don't have it, you can press Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will reactivate automatically later. If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again).
```
The extra spaces break your links :P

# Installing and updating drivers 
In this post, you will learn how to download or update drivers on your computer.
It is highly recommended to avoid using third-party software to update or install your drivers.
## Before you get into the process, you need to know your computer.
The first step in installing drivers is to correctly identify the hardware you need drivers for. This information can be found in your computer's manual or by using the Device Manager. You can access the device manager by right-clicking the Windows start button or by pressing <kbd>Win</kbd> + <kbd>X</kbd> and selecting Device Manager. In the Device Manager, look for the device you require drivers for, and expand its entry to see its model number. In System Information, navigate to the “Hardware” section and find the device you require drivers for.

## Method 1: Using Windows Update

> You can usually find drivers update for your drivers in Windows Update, instead of manually downloading the file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can usually find updates for your drivers in Windows Update, instead of manually downloading the file.
```

 1. Open Settings through the start menu or by pressing <kbd>Win</kbd> + <kbd>I</kbd>.
 2. Go to Updates and Security or Windows Updates.

>  3. Click on “Check for Updates”.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 3. Click on “Check for Updates” or "Download & Install Updates".
```

>  4. Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date, even if optional updates are available. In this case, you will see an “Optional Updates” button. Clicking on it will show a list of updates (all of them are typically driver updates). Select all of them and click on “Download and install”.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 4. Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date, even if optional updates are available. You should check if there are additional optional updates by clicking on "View Additional Updates" on Windows 10, or "Advanced Options"> "Optional Updates" on Windows 11. Doing so will allow you to view available driver updates/software updates. Select all of them and click on “Download and install”.
```

## Method 2: Download using the manufacturer's website.
It is highly recommended to download or update your drivers through your manufacturer's website, as that will guarantee proper functionality, provided you've installed the correct drivers. This is specially a good idea for your Graphics Card (GPU) Drivers.

All you need to do is:
1. On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc…), search for "{device manufacturer} drivers".
2. Visit the manufacturer's website and enter the model of your device, then follow the instructions on the page.
3. When you select the product, you may be shown with 2 options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recommended).
	- Download this specific driver only and install manually.

> ## Method 3: Download using the OEM's website.

Reviewer 4: is this section specifically for GPU only? or is it for all drivers

Reviewer 2: that's my bad, lol made an oopsie in my suggestion and he committed it

Author: Then?

Reviewer 2: > Then?

U already fixed that in commit 705b7bc3ce65532d192e87cd890a95d3443f0847

> If you want to download the drivers for your GPU (Graphics Card), and the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers, you can download them from the OEM's website.

Reviewer 2: Prob change that lol cuz i was a bit wrong there

```suggestion
If the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers you need for your hardware, you can download them from the OEM's website.
```

 1. On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc…), search for "{the OEM's name} drivers".
 2. Search for the model number of the piece of hardware you want to upgrade/install drivers for.
 3. When you select the product, you may have two options:

> 	- It's recommended to use the driver downloader if it's provided, as it makes the installation a lot easier.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	- Download the driver downloader (recommended).
```

	- Download this specific driver only and install manually.

> - See [Reinstalling GPU drivers from the OEM's website](https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- See [Reinstalling GPU drivers from the OEM's website](/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website) for more information.
```

## Troubleshooting 🔧

1. Enter Safe Mode:

Safe mode is a diagnostic tool, which loads Windows with only the essential drivers. This allows you to access Windows even if the problematic driver is causing issues during normal boot.

>  - Windows 10/11: Go to your start menu and with shift pressed, click restart. But if you have issues, you can try to press repeatedly and hold the power button while booting to trigger a forced restart. After 2–3 restarts, you'll see the “Advanced options” screen. Navigate to “Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Settings” > “Restart now”. Upon restart, choose “Enable Safe Mode with Networking” (if you need internet) or simply “Safe Mode”.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Windows 10/11: Open your start menu, and press the Restart button while holding <kbd>Shift</kbd>. If it does not put you into safe mode, you can try to repeatedly press and hold the power button while booting to trigger a forced restart. After 2–3 restarts, you'll see the “Advanced Options” screen. Navigate to “Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Settings” > “Restart now”. Upon restart, choose “Enable Safe Mode with Networking” (if you need internet) or simply “Safe Mode”.
```

 - Earlier Windows versions: Restart your computer and repeatedly press F8 before the Windows logo appears. This should open the Advanced Boot Options menu, where you can select “Safe Mode”.

2. Uninstall the Driver in Safe Mode:

Once in safe mode, you can uninstall the problematic driver:

 1. Open the Device Manager (search for it in the Start Menu).
 2. Expand the category for the device with the recently installed driver.
 3. Right-click on the device and select “Uninstall device”.
 4. Check the box “Delete the driver software for this device” (if available) and click “Uninstall”.

3. System Restore (if applicable):

If you recently created a system restore point before installing the driver, you can restore Windows to that point:

 1. In Safe Mode, open the Start Menu and search for “System Restore”.

>  2. Click “Create a restore point” and then “Next”.

Reviewer 4: Please reclarify step 2 and 3, as it does not match with what Windows shows.

 3. Choose the desired restore point (ideally the one before installing the driver) and click “Next” followed by “Finish”.

4. Startup Repair (if Windows won't boot at all):

If Safe Mode isn't accessible, you can try Startup Repair, a built-in tool on Windows that will attempt to fix boot issues:

>  1. Create a Windows Recovery USB drive using another computer. See : [Download Windows](https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 1. Create a Windows Recovery USB drive using another computer. See : [Download Windows](/wiki/downloading-windows.html).
```

 2. Boot your computer using the recovery drive and pick “Fix computer problems > Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Repair”.

5. Reinstall Windows (last resort):

> If none of the above solutions work, you may need to reinstall Windows. This will erase all your data and applications, so make sure you have a backup.

Reviewer 3: Relative link:
```suggestion
If none of the solutions above work, you may need to reinstall Windows. This will erase all your data and applications, so make sure you have a backup. You may learn how to backup your data [here](/wiki/backup.html).
```

>  1. Download Windows using a working computer: [Downloading Windows](https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 1. Download Windows using a working computer: [Downloading Windows](/wiki/downloading-windows.html)
```

>  2. Next, to install Windows, follow this guide: [Installing Windows](https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 2. Next, to install Windows, follow this guide: [Installing Windows](/wiki/installing-windows.html) 
```

# Installing and updating drivers 
In this post, you will learn how to download or update drivers on your computer.

> It's highly recommended to avoid using third-party software to update or install drivers.

Author: @waitwhatActo ?

## Before you get into the process, you need to know your computer.
The first step in installing drivers is to correctly identify the hardware you need drivers for. This information can be found in your computer's manual or by using the Device Manager (Windows) (right click into windows icon and press “Device Manager”). In the Device Manager, look for the device you require drivers for, and expand its entry to see its model number. In System Information, navigate to the “Hardware” section and find the device you require drivers for.

## Method 1: Check Windows Update

> You can usually find drivers and drivers update in Windows Update, instead of manually downloading the file.

Author: @waitwhatActo Maybe there is drivers that aren't installed.

> You can usually find drivers for your drivers in Windows Update, instead of having to manually download the file.

Reviewer 2: "drivers for your drivers" lol
```suggestion
You can usually find drivers for your devices in Windows Update, instead of having to manually download the file.
```

 1. Open the Settings app using the Start menu.
 2. Go to Updates and security.
 3. Click on “Check updates”.
 4. Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date, even if optional updates are available. In this case, you will see an “Optional Updates” button. Clicking on it will show a list of updates (all of them are typically driver updates). Select all of them and click on “Download and install”.

> ## Method 2: Download via brand device page.

Reviewer 2: Maybe change that to "Download using the manufacturer's website"

> It's highly recommended to download or update the drivers, through the manufacturer's website, as it's guaranteed that they will work correctly. This is especially a good idea for the GPU (Graphics) drivers.

Reviewer 4: "It is highly [...] or update your drivers through your manufacturer's website, as that will guarantee proper functionality, provided you've installed the correct drivers."
"[...] for your Graphics Card (GPU) Drivers."

All you need to do is:

 1. On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc…), search for "{device manufacturer} drivers".

>  2. Next, enter the ID of the device and follow the instructions on the page.

Reviewer 4: "Visit the manufacturer's website and enter the model of your device, then follow the instructions on the page."

>  3. When you select the product, you have two options:

Reviewer 4: "[...] you may be shown with 2 options."

	- Download the driver downloader (recommended)

> 	- And download the driver on specific and run executable

Reviewer 4: "Download this specific driver only and install manually"

> ## Method 3: Download via brand product page.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "Download using the OEM's website"?

> Now if you want to download for your GPU or your brand device hasn't the drivers (in this case do it if it is especially important, otherwise apply the saying: “if it works, don't touch it, or you may make it worse”).

Reviewer 2: Cleaning this up a lil bit

"If you want to download the drivers for your GPU (Graphics Card), and the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers, you can download them from the OEM's website. Only do this if you have to."

> Now follow the same instructions as Method 2, but with the OEM's website.

Reviewer 4: i think this line can be omitted

> Now follow the same instructions but the brand hardware (like intel CPU and GPU).

Reviewer 2: Now follow the same instructions as Method 2, but with the OEM's website.

> ## (Emphasis) Famous manufacter's pages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Well-known manufacturers' websites
```

> ## (Emphasis) Famous manufacter's pages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Well-known manufacturers' websites
```

 1. On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc…), search for "{your brand device name} drivers".

>  2. Search your hardware piece you want to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Search for the model number of the piece of hardware you want to upgrade/install drivers for.

>  3. When you select the product, you have two options:

Reviewer 4: "[...] you may have two options."

	- It's recommended to use the driver downloader if it's provided, as it makes the installation a lot easier.

> 	- Download the driver on specific and run the executable

Reviewer 4: "Download this specific driver only and install manually"

> - (Follow method 3 for more information: [https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website](https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website))

Reviewer 2: `See [Reinstalling GPU drivers from the OEM's website](https://msft.chat/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website) for more information.`

## Troubleshooting 🔧

1. Enter Safe Mode:

Safe mode is a diagnostic tool, which loads Windows with only the essential drivers. This allows you to access Windows even if the problematic driver is causing issues during normal boot.

>  - Windows 10/11: Repeatedly press and hold the power button while booting to trigger a forced restart. After 2–3 restarts, you'll see the “Advanced options” screen. Navigate to “Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Settings” > “Restart now”. Upon restart, choose “Enable Safe Mode with Networking” (if you need internet) or simply “Safe Mode”.

Reviewer 4: Maybe mention holding shift while pressing the restart button?

Reviewer 2: how are u gonna do that if ur
gpu drivers are no worky worky and u cant see smh

Author: > Maybe mention holding shift while pressing the restart button?

In some cases that doesn't work (happened to me).

Reviewer 4: just suggesting to mention that, since it's less obnoxious than having to restart 3 times

Reviewer: @julsehn It is still worth mentioning; just because it doesn't always work for you, doesn't mean it's not a solution worth trying.

@sthivaios I didn't interpret this section as being troubleshooting steps for when GPU drivers fail specfically? If it's another driver that isn't impeding your ability to Shift+Restart into WinRE, you'd still be able to do the steps. This section also appears to mention the button in Settings to restart into WinRE anyway, so if the article mentions that method, might as well also mention this one.

Reviewer 2: fair enough @FloatingMilkshake

> # Installing and updating drivers 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Installing and Updating drivers 
```

> # How to install drivers and fix them 

Reviewer 2: Maybe change it to

"Installing and updating drivers"

> Hello, in this post you will know how to download or update your drivers for your computer.

Reviewer 2: small grammar corrections

"In this post, you will learn how to download or updating drivers on your computer."

In my opinion, the "hello" in the beginning is not really needed but ig you can leave it there lol.

> It's highly recommended to not use third-party software to update drivers.

Reviewer 2: I mean, i guess this is not really needed but it sounds a bit more fluent to me like this :

It's highly recommended to avoid using third-party software to update or install drivers.

The first step in installing drivers is to correctly find the hardware you need drivers for. This information can be found in your computer's manual or by using the Device Manager (Windows) (right click into windows icon and press “Device Manager”). In the Device Manager, look for the device you need drivers for and expand its entry to see its model number. In System Information, navigate to the “Hardware” section and find the device you need drivers for.

## Method 1: Check Windows Update
Most of the time, you will find updates for your driver.

 1. Open the configuration for Windows via windows menu or the searcher.
 2. Go to Updates and security.
 3. Click to “Check updates”.

>  4. If you see “all is updated” this method is done, but if you see optional updates, and you click into it, you will see some updates (normally drivers), you select to all, and you need to click “Download and install” button.

Reviewer: Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date even if optional updates are available. It may be worth clarifying that 'You're up to date' doesn't mean there are no optional driver updates available.

>  4. Windows Update might say that you are up-to-date, even if optional updates are available. In this case, you will see an “Optional Updates” button. Clicking on it will show a list of updates (all of them are typically driver updates). Select all of them and click on “Download an installation”.

Reviewer 2: At the end of this line (line 12) it should say "Download and Install" not download an installation lol.

## Method 2: Download via brand device page.
It's highly recommended to downloading the drivers or update them via brand page or app by the fact that the company verifies that the driver works well with the computer (graphics in most cases is on the brand GPU page)
All you need to do is:

 1. Go to your favourite searcher and search: “{your brand device name} drivers”.
 2. Next, put the ID of your device and follow the instructions on the page.
 3. When you selected the product you have two options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recomended)
	- And download the driver on especific and run executable

> Method 3: Download via brand product page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Method 3: Download via brand product page.
```

>  3. When you selected the product, you have two options:

Reviewer 2: When you **select** the product

If you want to download the drivers for your GPU (Graphics Card), and the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers, you can download them from the OEM's website. Only do this if you have to.
Now follow the same instructions as Method 2, but with the OEM's website.

>  1. On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc…), search for "{your brand device name} drivers".

Reviewer 2: maybe change that search thing at the end to {the OEM's name} instead of {your brand device name}

 - Earlier Windows versions: Restart your computer and repeatedly press F8 before the Windows logo appears. This should open the Advanced Boot Options menu, where you can choose “Safe Mode”.

2. Uninstall the Driver in Safe Mode:

Once in safe mode, you can uninstall the problematic driver:

 1. Open the Device Manager (search for it in the Start Menu).
 2. Expand the category for the device with the recently installed driver.
 3. Right-click on the driver and select “Uninstall device”.
 4. Check the box “Delete the driver software for this device” (if available) and click “Uninstall”.

3. System Restore (if applicable):

If you recently created a system restore point before installing the driver, you can restore Windows to that point:

 1. In Safe Mode, open the Start Menu and search for “System Restore”.
 2. Click “Create a restore point” and then “Next”.
 3. Choose the desired restore point (ideally the one before installing the driver) and click “Next” followed by “Finish”.

4. Startup Repair (if Windows won't boot at all):

If even Safe Mode isn't accessible, you can try Startup Repair, a built-in tool on Windows that tries to fix boot issues:

>  1. Create a Windows Recovery USB drive using another computer (https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/create-a-recovery-drive-abb4691b-5324-6d4a-8766-73fab304c246).

Reviewer: It's worth noting that Startup Repair can be accessed from WinRE, which doesn't require a recovery drive or installation media unless it is missing, damaged, or you're unable to boot to it.

> If Safe Mode isn't accessible, you can try Startup Repair, a built-in tool on Windows that will attempt to fix boot issues:

Reviewer 2: a built-in tool _**in**_ windows. (not on windows)

Author: ![image](https://github.com/Microsoft-community/Community-website/assets/137704565/dee1bd4d-534a-4463-8d0d-b8b56d8c837a)

Reviewer 2: Hmmm always thought that was on... Anyway ignore it for now.

Author: Your comment or the grammar isssue?

Reviewer 2: > Your comment or the grammar isssue?

Both lol. You can leave this discussion open for now. But leave it as "on" in the file and commit it and we might come back to this later.

Reviewer: I think 'on' would be more correct here, though I would probably just drop the "on Windows" part entirely (so "...a built-in tool") or just say something like "...a tool built-into Windows" instead

 2. Boot your computer using the recovery drive and choose “Troubleshoot” > “Advanced options” > “Startup Repair”.

5. Reinstall Windows (last resort):

If none of the above solutions work, you may need to reinstall Windows. This will erase all your data and applications, so make sure you have a backup.

 1. Download windows with a functional machine, following the steps from this URL https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html

>  2. Next, follow this guide about how to install it: https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html (if asks about a licence, and you don't have it, you can use your Microsoft account or pray if your UEFI has your licence).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. Next, follow this guide about how to install it: https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html (if asks about a licence, and you don't have it, you can press Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will reactivate automatically later. If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again).
```

> Next, to install Windows, follow this guide: [Installing Windows](https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html) 

Reviewer 2: Im guessing this was accidental but the "2." is on line 73 while your text is on line 74 lol.

> 
> If none of the above solutions work, you may need to reinstall Windows. This will erase all your data and applications, so make sure you have a backup.
> 
>  1. Download windows with a functional machine, following the steps from this URL https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows.html
>  2. Next, follow this guide about how to install it: https://msft.chat/wiki/installing-windows.html (if asks about a licence, and you don't have it, you can use your Microsoft account or pray if your UEFI has your licence).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This was duplicated

> Note: During the installation process, you may be asked to enter a licence key. If you don't have one, you can click Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will automatically reactivate later.

Reviewer 2: Remove this line and add the text below instead exactly how it is.

```markdown
::: tip Note
Note: During the installation process, you may be asked to enter a licence key. If you don't have one, you can click Skip or "I don't have a product key" and Windows will automatically reactivate later. If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again.
:::
```

It will make it look like the screenshot below.

![image](https://github.com/Microsoft-community/Community-website/assets/109022579/f1f48bcb-6059-476b-aa30-94cbcccbc1b3)

> If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again

Reviewer 2: remove this line since we added it on the little note box above on line 76.

>  If you were previously signed in with a Microsoft account, you may need to sign in with the same account again

Reviewer 2: remove this line cuz it's already in the "note" thing on line 75 so this is not needed

3. When you select the product, you may be shown with 2 options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recommended).
	- Download this specific driver only and install manually.
## Well-known manufacturers' websites
 - [Dell](https://www.dell.com/support/home/en-us?app=drivers)
 - [HP](https://support.hp.com/us-en/drivers)
 - [Lenovo](https://pcsupport.lenovo.com/us/en)
## Method 3: Download using the OEM's website.
If the manufacturer's website doesn't provide the drivers that you need for your hardware, you can download them from the OEM's (Original Equipment Manufacturer) website.

 1. On the search engine of your choice (Google, Bing, etc…), search for "{the OEM's name} drivers".
 2. Search for the model number of the piece of hardware you want to upgrade/install drivers for.
 3. When you select the product, you may have two options:
	- Download the driver downloader (recommended).
	- Download this specific driver only and install manually.
- See [Reinstalling GPU drivers from the OEM's website](/wiki/reinstalling-gpu-drivers.html#method-3-oem-website) for more information on installing GPU drivers.
## Troubleshooting 🔧

> ### If you can acces to Windows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### If you can acces Windows:
```

> 1. Open up Device Manager by pressing <kbd>Win</kbd> + <kbd>X</kbd> and then clicking the "Device Manager" option on the Power Users menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the Device Manager by pressing <kbd>Win</kbd> + <kbd>X</kbd> and then clicking the "Device Manager" option. You can also search for it in the Start Menu.
```

> 2. In the Device Manager window, find the device that's causing you problems (you might have to expand a category), right-click the device, and then click the "Properties" command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In Device Manager, find the device that is causing problems (you might have to expand a category), right-click on it, and click "Properties".
```

> 3. Click the Driver tab at the top of the window, and then click "Roll Back Driver."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Go to the "Driver" tab at the top of the window, and then click "Roll Back Driver".
```

> 4. Windows prompts with a warning and asks you why you're rolling back to a previous driver. Click a response and then click "Yes." If you feel the need, you can leave a detailed response in the Tell Us More field, located at the bottom of the window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Windows will ask you why you're rolling back to a previous driver. Select a reason, and click "Yes". If you want to, you can leave a detailed response in the "Tell Us More" field, at the bottom of the window.
```

> 5. Windows then automatically restores your driver to the previous version, which could take up to 5-10 minutes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Windows will then restore your driver to the previous version, which could take up to 5-10 minutes.
```

# Installing and updating drivers 
In this guide, you will learn how to download or update drivers on your computer.

> It is highly recommended to avoid using third-party software to update or install your drivers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

::: warning
It is highly recommended to avoid using third-party software to update or install your drivers.
:::

```
